hello everyone November 2019 is over
which means that it's time for another
QA as you may know by now this is the
public Q&A there's also a patreon
Edition for those who want to support my
work in this public edition I'm going to
talk about a union psychological concept
called the shadow more specifically
integrating an evil shadow basically
everyone even the most positive person
you'll meet has a dark side as Swiss
psychologist Carl Jung stated everyone
has a shadow the shadow is an
unconscious collection of undesired
characteristics this could be positive
ones too like creativity that one has
repressed because it's for example
looked down upon by family members I've
made a separate video about the shadow
if you want to know more in the comment
section I've stumbled upon a question by
Caleb about the integration of an evil
shadow I quote I truly believe that my
shadow is evil hellish even why would I
want to integrate this I see it as
something external and out of my control
and would love to have it severe for my
existence all it does is making my life
much more difficult than it needs to be
and quote the whole idea of the shadow
is that it includes a repressed evil
side of oneself that can even be what
you call hellish so it's normal the
positive thing in my opinion is that you
are at least conscious of it to some
degree what makes you think that this
shadow part of yours is hellish what are
the characteristics you're aware of do
they appear in your dreams do you have
strong projections onto other people
that basically represent the things that
you're unconsciously we're pressing
according to call young dreams as well
as projections are basically echoes of
the shadow in dreams it manifests in the
form of symbols and metaphors and
projections arise because we see in
others what we denying ourselves for
example if we react emotionally and
aggressively against let's say
homosexuality like Frank Fitts did in a
movie American Beauty this might be a
sign that there's some form of repressed
homosexuality in ourselves the same goes
for strong disapproval of someone who is
sexually active or even promiscuous
which might come from sexual repression
or frustration in a person who has this
strong disapproval now a shadow is
mostly out of control
because it operates unconsciously unless
you manage to make the unconscious
conscious which is the purpose of shadow
work according to Jungian psychology
you shouldn't repress your shadow side
instead it's recommended to manage and
integrate it so you can control it
instead of it controlling you the more
you deny the shadow the denser it
becomes so this might be a result of
many years of repression of unwanted
characteristics that sometimes tend to
come out in an extreme form accepting
these things no matter how dark and
hellish doesn't mean acting upon them
instead it means shedding light upon
them to understand them better the
acceptance of the shadow self lies in at
least temporarily letting go of societal
norms of what is good and evil and
accept that the dark side is part of
your nature in nature is there good and
evil well in my observation there are
things that we as living beings are
biologically inclined towards like
survival so let's say that somehow
you've discovered within yourself that
you have a deep desire for killing or
perhaps even for torture and in your
free time you bully people online and
torment animals it sounds like a pretty
dense shadow to me now I think in the
light of union psychology we can reduce
these dark desires to the primitive
drives of power and death in nature we
see that most animals carry these drives
with them a cat for example can be a
very cute cuddly animal but have you
ever see it catching a mouse and toying
with it until it dies this part of the
cat is very cruel and murderous but I
think that we can all agree that a cat
isn't a cat without both its cuddly and
murderous sides we simply accept
animals for having these dark instincts
yet we have much difficulty accepting
them in humans sure we have norms
religions etc to get along better as
they are the basis of civilization but
the sacrifice we make as humans is that
we hide our darker sides the things that
are not socially accepted just to fit in
thus we wear a mask the persona there's
no light without shadow and no psychic
wholeness without imperfection an evil
shadow is part of the complete self so
denying it would be denying yourself the
question was of course how can you
integrate this evil shadow it starts
with making the unconscious conscious
and then he acceptance that this evil
this madness is part of you and that
you're better off knowing it than being
oblivious to it here is what Carl Jung
wrote about this in his red book which
is this personal account of his
imaginative experiences during a period
of voluntary confrontation with the
unconscious I quote be silent and listen
have you recognized your madness and do
you admit it have you noticed that all
your foundations are completely mired in
madness do you not want to recognize
your madness and welcome it in a
friendly manner you wanted to accept
everything so except madness to let the
light of your madness shine and it will
suddenly dawn on you
madness is not to be despised and not to
be feared but instead you should give it
life if you want to find paths you
should also not spurn madness since it
makes up such a great part of your
nature be glad that you can recognize it
for you will thus avoid becoming its
victim madness is a special form of the
Spirit and clinkz to all teachings and
philosophies but even more to daily life
since life itself is full of craziness
and at bottom utterly illogical man
strives toward reason only so that he
can make rules for himself life itself
has no rules that is its misery and it's
unknown law what you call knowledge is
an attempt to impose something
comprehensible on life
and quote the madness you may find
during periods of introspection and
using methods like active imagination
and dream analysis could be considered
too disturbing to integrate in your
daily life but integration doesn't mean
that we should act upon it first of all
there's an energy aspect involved with
these dark repressed characteristics
which means that they could be harvested
to achieve goals it could be food for
creative outlets but also for physical
exercise a great example of this is
David Goggins who is regarded the
toughest man alive partly because of his
almost superhuman achievement in the
area of sports like the world record for
most pull-ups running several ultra
marathons and triathlons and facing many
obstacles like asthma obesity
difficulties in learning etc he also
completed Navy SEAL training in his 30s
against all odds for me the most
interesting thing about his story was
that in his youth he was severely
physically abused by his father and also
severely bullied at school his early
life was filled with violence which
created a tremendous amount of anger and
grief below the surface of a very timid
anxious obese man with a stutter when he
decided to turn his life around he was
able to channel his rage and fear into
extraordinary accomplishments denial is
the ultimate comfort zone Goggins said
and I think that's surprisingly true in
regards to the shadow it's also true
that staying in a comfort zone of denial
and the unwillingness to see the dark in
oneself will only lead to bigger
problems later on integration can simply
be the acknowledgment that it's there
just to prevent that it leverages one's
awareness of it to take control
imagining these disowned qualities can
give one insight and channel the energy
that comes from it into better
productive things perhaps if these
characteristics are violent they could
be developed into something beneficial
by martial arts for example I personally
think that acceptance and awareness
without acting on it is the key when
facing our dark side
when our shadow is off the radar we
can't monitor it let alone control it so
we'll never know when it suddenly lashes
out towards ourselves or the outside
world as a spiritual teacher heartily
once said what you accept you go beyond
thank you for watching
[Music]
you